5.42     Workers’ Compensation Policy (adopted May 12, 2014)

The College provides Workers’ Compensation benefits for all College employees pursuant to the mandates of the Missouri Workers Compensation Law.  Employees who suffer an injury or who are exposed to or contract any occupational disease arising out of and in the course of their employment with the College (“a work-related injury”) will receive benefits from the College in accordance with this Policy and the Missouri Workers’ Compensation Law (“the Law”).

5.42.9	Temporary Total Disability Benefits

Employees will receive Temporary Total Disability (TDD) Benefits in accordance with the Law.  TTD Benefits are wage replacement benefits paid to an employee in lieu of wages during the period of time in which the employee is unable to return to any employment because of a work-related injury.  

Employees whose average weekly wage as defined by the Law (“average weekly wage”) exceeds the actual wage necessary to obtain the maximum total disability rate as defined by the Law (“maximum wage”) may use accrued vacation, sick leave or personal leave to cover the difference between the employee’s average weekly wage and the maximum wage during the time period such employee is entitled to TTD Benefits under the Law.

By Law, TTD Benefits are not provided for the first three (3) full days of absence due to a work-related injury unless the employee is off work for at least 14 calendar days due to a work-related injury.  The employee may request use of accrued vacation, sick leave or personal leave for the first three (5) days’ absence from work.  If the employee is off work more than 14 calendar days, TTD Benefits will be made from the first day of lost time.  The College will reduce the next month’s accrued vacation, sick leave or personal leave based on the difference between the amount of TTD Benefits paid and the amount of accrued leave used for the first three (3) days of absence.

An employee who is receiving unemployment benefits may not receive concurrent TTD benefits.

An employee who is terminated from employment with the College for post-injury misconduct will not be entitled to continue to receive TTD benefits.

An employee receiving TTD Benefits will continue to accrue vacation and sick leave.

Employees should refer to PSRS/PEERS for information on the potential impact of TTD Benefits on retirement benefits.

An employee who has returned to work after a work-related injury, but is still receiving medical treatment, will not receive TTD benefits for time missed from work for physical therapy, employer-requested medical evaluations, or to attend medical treatment and/or evaluations.  The employee will be allowed to seek follow up treatment during the normally assigned work shift.
